# UFRJ

This repository hosts [UFRJ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federal_University_of_Rio_de_Janeiro)'s ICPC team reference document.
It's a library optimized for ICPC-style competitions, where code is
expected to be typed manually from a printed book. Code readability is sacrificed in
order to spare lines of code (to shorten the number of pages).

Most of the code is written and tested (oj-test, stress, and some old unit-tests) 
using C++ (as of now we are using C++20 as the standard).

See [ufrj.pdf](https://github.com/cciafrino/icpc-book/tree/main/ufrj.pdf) for the final version used during the last regional qualifier (no number of pages limit),
and [ufrj-wf.pdf](https://github.com/cciafrino/icpc-book/tree/main/ufrj-wf.pdf) for the one used last ICPC World Finals (maximum of 26 pages).
You can find the source code at [content/](https://github.com/cciafrino/icpc-book/tree/main/content).

## Aspirations

This library is heavily inspired and build upon [KACTL](https://github.com/kth-competitive-programming/kactl).


## Building PDF

To build, type `make ufrj` (or `make fast`) on a \*nix machine -- this will update `ufrj.pdf` and `ufrj-wf.pdf`. This process is executed by the CI on every commit so you can grab the latest version on `build`.

## Hashes to check correctness

Take advantage of the hashing when typing in these algorithms. Each
algorithm has a 6 character MD5 hash in the upper right. This hash can be
generated by using `hash.sh`, `:Hash` command from the `.vimrc` and by using `hash-cpp` function declared in the `.bashrc` file. The
hashing ignores whitespace and comments.

## Coding style

Line width is 63 chars, with tabs for indentation (tab = 2 spaces in the pdf).

Each algorithm contains a header with the author of the code, the date it
was added, a description of the algorithm, its testing status, and preferably also
source, license and time complexity.

## Testing

This library aims for a high level of confidence in algorithm correctness.
Testing is done both on online judges (using [oj-verify](https://github.com/online-judge-tools/verification-helper)) and (for newer algorithms) with stress tests
that compare output to a more naive algorithm for a large amount of randomly generated cases.
These tests live in the `stress-tests` directory, and are run with CI on every commit. The CI also verifies that all headers compile (except for a whitelist in `docs/scripts/skip_headers`) and that the latex compiles.

## Licensing

The licensing is unclear. The book is a mix of code written by the maintainers and
code adapted from many other sources publicly available. The source of much of the borrowed code is credited in each file. If you believe that any attribution is missing, you can file an issue or e-mail me at [cciafrino@gmail.com](mailto:cciafrino@gmail.com?subject=[Github]%20ICPC-book%20source%20credits).
